9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong, you're watching the
China Show. I'm Ivon Man with Averil
Hong.
We're counting down to the open of
markets in greater China. Our top
stories, crude prices trimmed gains
after Iran and the US agree to stop
attacks and resume talks following fresh
strikes that threatened oil flows
through the straight of Hormuz. Samsung
and SKH Highix extend losses even as
they prepare to announce more than $1
trillion in investments to keep up with
demand for AI hardware. Plus, China
turns up the heat on the EU, signaling
Beijing can withstand a complete halt in
trade with a block ahead of Commerce
Minister Wangwan Tau's trip to Brussels.
And I'm Min Low at the Hong Kong Stock
Exchange where the fundraising frenzy
continues with three more companies
going public. We'll speak with the CEO
of Clear Lights, which makes hardware
used in data centers, and the founder of
Alibaban Pharmaceuticals, discussing
drug development and foreign licensing
deals.
All right, as we inch closer to the end
of the quarter and the month, really a
lot of questions about what's been going
on here when it comes to Iran, right? It
seems like at least both sides are
willing to end the hostilities for now
as these talks resume this week, but
once again, it brings oil back as some
sort of tail risk to these markets. But
we'll see, right? This this news from
South Korea that's expected to come out
later this afternoon. Maybe it could
reignite once again this AI trade.
Yeah, and the extent in which this AI
spending push by South Korea actually
makes sense. I think that is what
investors will be watching as well.
Those concerns right about over capacity
despite this memory crunch that the
markets are mulling over. Let's take a
look at how that might affect market
action. I mean we are also watching
brand prices. We are seeing them
hovering pretty flat in these is against
the backdrop of the halting of attacks.
uh given how these talks between the US
and Iran could resume in Doha tomorrow.
We are watching as well when you look at
the curve and how the treasuries have
been trading. We did see them hit a bit
lower towards the end of last week.
Looking quite flat now a bit more of
those declines on the front end. Dollar
also looking quite flat. Now we are
watching a couple of things this week in
terms of data out of the US including
Jolts data. That's Jolts and the
non-farm payrolls. Futures are pointing
to a bit of a recovery there. Note how
in terms of the US stock market
performance, the socks, the chip makers,
those are the ones that really drag
things lower. You're pairing some of the
earlier declines when it comes to tech
names on Japan. But of course, the big
one we're watching how these memory
players perhaps retain their dominant
position, right? We're talking about
Samsung and SKH Highix. Even at a time
where this spending plan could total $13
trillion over 10 years, TSMC is joining
the trading session. You're looking at
slight gains there. Now, the other thing
that we're watching in terms of the chip
supply chain is Apple reportedly right
according to reporting by the financial
times looking to get those chips from
chunks in memory. So to our point
earlier about whether this depresses the
margins for the existing dominant
players for DRAM, take a look at how
futures are pointing. Of course, we
watching the Hong Singh after 7 weeks of
declines. Friday, it just narrowly
averted uh avoided the bare market uh
signals, but we're also watching of
course in terms of data because of
industrial production numbers and how we
saw those profits uh the dip there that
was maybe not expected uh by some given
how factory gate deflation was avoided.
Of course, that was something we saw in
the month of March. But overall, PMIs on
deck and the questions in which this
will potentially reinforce the idea of
this twospeed economy by China.
>> Yeah. And whether there are still cracks
forming on the the one side of the
speed, which has been of course exports,
this AI boom, the like uh given those
industrial profit numbers softening uh
from the previous month as well. So, one
thing to watch on the eco front in
China. In the meantime, let's get you
caught up with our top story this
morning. The US and Iran have agreed to
stop attacking each other before peace
talks resumed this week. The development
signals a deescalation after several
days of tit fortat strikes that tested a
fragile truce. Let's get more on on the
situation with Jill Dies, our Bloomberg
managing editor. So yes, talk start this
week. What what what's going to be like
the temperature and and really the pulse
check right now.
>> Yeah, I mean Ivon at this point um you
just had a you know pretty jittery
nervous weekend here with this exchange
of uh fire. You had um Donald Trump say
online um on Saturday that there may
become come a time where they can no
longer be reasonable and they'll have to
be forced to um you know end this
campaign militarily the way that they
started it. So I mean you've got a lot
of language that's flying around here.
Obviously now though uh we're reporting
that um they've agreed to a truce uh for
the moment but again Yavon we've been
back and forth on this so many times.
Um, you know, we were supposed to enter
a period of the 60-day ceasefire during
which they could um talk through some of
these really, really weighty topics. Um,
maybe now um we'll actually see
something and we're expecting talks in
Doha this week. Um, Axios is reporting
that um the nature of those talks is
going to revolve around um the um
opening of the straight of Hermuz,
keeping that open and keeping traffic
flowing through. Um but there's a lot of
other weighty topics that the US and
Iran really have to kind of come to
terms with. A lot of the discussions so
far have been focused on um just really
technical considerations over Iran's
nuclear program. So again, a lot to chew
through here for the moment. Um you
know, we're walking into the week
saying, you know, maybe there's a bit of
a cooling off period here, but we'll
have to see what happens when those
talks actually resume.
And also Jill, on the topic of Iran
sanctions, because the Trump deal
essentially unravels decades of curbs, I
mean, what are we watching in terms of
how difficult it has been potentially
for for governments, for businesses to
adhere to this patchwork of sanctions?
>> Yes, that's right, Averil. I mean, look,
since 1979 and the Iranian revolution,
uh, Iran has been one of the world's
most sanctioned nations. Uh so the idea
that the Trump administration is kind of
coming in and trying to unravel a lot of
that um effectively uh potentially
freeing up um all of these Iranian
assets here. I mean really sort of a
stunning uh reversal of policy at this
point. Um and in order to make that
happen, I mean you've got a lot of
considerations particularly if you're a
big um you know multinational bank or
investment corporation. I mean, the idea
um that you could potentially be waiting
into business with Iran um carries with
it a lot of huge considerations here. Um
kind of unclear at this point how much
of this might just be sort of one-off uh
transactions that are taking place
during the 60-day negotiation period
that we're currently in the middle of
with the US and Iran versus how much of
that is something that could continue to
happen if there's a, you know, stronger,
firmer peace deal uh that's ultimately
put in place. I think the thing to keep
in mind uh with a lot of this April is
that a lot of these financial
institutions in particular that might be
open to this idea they're they're just
you know traditionally very risk averse
and so there's a lot of questions here
about um you know what actually ends up
getting put in place that you'd have to
abide by in order to even you know
engage with um you know the removal of
these sanctions. So I think that's
probably weighing on the minds of a lot
of these places. Um I mean I can imagine
that um some risk and compliance um
departments are having you know just
it's been absolutely head spitting here.
Um so yes, a lot of considerations here.
Uh we'll have to see um what the US
actually moves toward to um you know
ultimately lift these sanctions, but
it's it's it's pretty dicey here.
>> Jill, thank you so much. Bloomberg
managing editor Jill is with the latest
for us there. Also watching the other
big story today in the Asia session,
South Korea set to unveil what it calls
three mega projects on Monday as
President Nichong meets with executives
from Samsung and SK Group. Reports say
they could announce AI and chip
investments worth up to $1.3 trillion
over the next decade. Bloomberg
Intelligence senior industry analyst
Masahiro Wakasugi joins us now with
more. So, Masa Hiro, walk us through
what is driving these potential
investments by Samsung and SKH Highix.
>> Uh yeah, good morning. So, uh what's
happening at this moment is that uh of
course uh as you may know that the AI
demand is very strong. So, uh anyway, uh
DR makers or non fraction makers have to
expand production capacity in order to
uh keep up with the strong demand. And
uh I think that uh you know last week uh
PR micron reported and talked about the
long-term contract with the customers.
So I think that the customers are kind
of accepting you know reasonable pricing
or maybe high pricing for the DM makers
so that uh you know D makers or
nonfraction makers can kind of secure
the cash flow over the next maybe say
you know four five years and uh you know
going forward you know memory makers
could uh maybe you know uh they are able
to recoup the investment by uh you know
supplying memory products at the
reasonable pricing going forward.
>> I mean I think some of these earnings
are coming out next month I believe a
month from now. Masa for Samsung SKH
highix. How do you see the upcoming
earning season playing out for these
two?
>> Uh yes uh last week uh you know Micron's
reporting period is a two month overlap
with Samsung and SKH highix. It's April
and May. So that was a quite good
indication that uh you know micron
achieved 85% gross margin uh for the uh
previous quarter and 80% operating
margin and I think that SKHenix and
Samsung can achieve the similar level of
the profitability and uh probably
SKHenix or Samsung they can talk a
little bit more about the long-term
contract with their customers and that's
uh maybe that sign uh maybe showing that
the AI demand will be uh quite strong
over the next few years.
Masa, thank you. Masahiro Wakasugi
there, our Bloomberg Intelligence,
senior industry analyst here. Uh
interesting enough, yeah, the stocks are
actually heading lower despite this
upcoming announcement. We'll see how
this all plays out throughout the day.
Still ahead, we got the setup for a new
trading week with Capital.com as
investors access the fragile Middle East
ceasefire and whether this AI trade is
sustainable. Senior market analyst Cal
Roa joins us next. We'll also be live
from the Hong Kong stock exchange. We
got three gongs on stage here this
morning. Alaban Pharmaceuticals.
Creoleite is one. We're speaking with
two out of the three of those companies
that are debuting here today. later on
on the show. This is the China Show.
So, a couple of things that we're
watching this week in terms of data. We
have, of course, the US June jobs
report, but also PMIs out of China
following on from that dip in industrial
profits. Also a couple of things on deck
in Europe with the ECB's annual
symposium. We'll hear from Fed Chair
Kevin Walsh. He's set to speak on
Wednesday and this is his debut overseas
appearance since taking office. He'll
share the stage with a couple of other
veterans from GFC days. Watching as
well, China's commerce minister. He's
visiting Brussels for trade talks with
EU officials. uh and of course an India
Japan summit in New Delhi. Here to talk
us through what he's watching in
markets, Kyle Roda is senior market
analyst at capital.com.
Uh Kyle, always good to see you. So
markets have had quite the week with
that memory unwind today. We're watching
for announcements out of South Korea.
What are you paying most attention to?
>> Well, I suppose the price action in tech
going into the end of the month. I mean
obviously we're dealing with a number of
cost cross crossurrens when it comes to
equities at the moment whether it be
geopolitical risk and as well as
interest rate certainty but uncertainty
I should say but I mean ultimately we're
really looking at this AI trade and
whether it can be revived or not and I'm
sort of fairly confident that it can be
especially once we get through some of
the noisier elements of the end of
quarter but you know really until we can
kind of get that narrative back on track
um you know both when it comes to Asian
markets and Wall Street um clearly
things are going to be a little
sour when it comes to sentiment um and
will obviously see markets have trouble
sort of picking up their sort of upward
trend that you know I think is still in
place um but probably needs just a fresh
catalyst to sort of be renewed.
>> Might that catalyst come in the form of
South Korea's announcements this
afternoon from the president along with
some of the officials from SKH Samsung
electronics. I mean the worry is that
some of these longerterm AI investment
plans might not make sense but do you
see this as a negative or positive
catalyst potentially
in the short term I see as a positive
catalyst I mean obviously we have to be
wary that effectively this shows us that
there is a particular inertia here when
it comes to the AI trade which is to say
that it's in everybody's interests um
both for economic and strategic reg
reasons to continue to to push it
forward. The short-term benefit of that
is that there's going to be that kind of
inevitable impact uh uplift in demand.
There's going to be that sort of benefit
uh to the profitability of these
companies and their growth. But
somewhere down the line, we're going to
have to be obviously dealing with the
excess capacity that potentially builds.
And then you know even not quite as far
down the line so to speak as as that
particular issue is that all of these
things have this kind of um impact on
interest rate expectations and the kind
of supply constraints across the globe
which you know is starting to really
bite pretty much everywhere and creates
this kind of interest rate risk in the
in the market. So anytime that a
government is basically saying that it's
going to throw money behind the
industry, it's going to be positive for
it. Uh but there's going to be second
and third order effects um further down
the line that, you know, is actually
kind of where we sort of sit right now
in terms of the contradiction in the
markets. The AI boom more or less
bringing the interest rate uncertainty
that is, you know, potentially
undermining the AI boom.
And Kyle, you you mentioned some of
those macro risks out there because I I
I see when it comes to oil markets,
we're we're inching closer to 70 bucks
uh instead of 80 now. And yet the dollar
seems to be breaking out in a big way.
Do you think the sort of moves of the
dollar are going to be a big headwind
for the rest of the year
>> for commodities potentially for oil? I
think there is one thing that is
probably not being spoken about spoken
about enough over the last couple of
weeks is obviously there's a lot of
reasons why we're seeing this dollar
strength. A lot of it is to do with, you
know, interest rate expectations.
Obviously, the US Fed versus the rest of
the world. But I don't think it should
be understated how significant it is
that the United States is inviting Iran
effectively back into global trade um
selling its oil into global markets. And
to do so, it is going to have to do it
with the US dollar and the US dollar
payment system, which is, you know, a
little bit of a reversal of that kind of
ddollarization trade, which was probably
still in play from a structural point of
view now, but certainly, you know,
looking at last year and at the
beginning of this year, you know, one of
the reasons why we're seeing sort of
dollar weakness. So, you know, on the
surface, this kind of dollar strength,
um, you know, is something that is, uh,
contributing to a weaker oil price. um
that if it persists it will obviously
add to um you know a weaker oil price. I
guess the irony there is that you know
um the weaker oil price is very much
being driven by these expectations of
Iranian supply hitting the markets and
it's also something incidentally that is
is boosting the dollar again because of
that kind of unwind of the the
ddollarization uh trade.
>> Yeah. Why do I see a VIX that's sub 20
then Kyle? What do you think the market
is is potentially misplacing here?
Well, I mean, I think we are looking at
the surface of a narrow subset of stocks
which are underperforming. Um, and you
know, really could be underperforming
simply just because of, you know, some
rebalancing going into the end of the
quarter. Um, and you know, some concerns
about where we going, where we're going
with interest rate settings across the
globe and therefore, you know, uh, where
valuations are at. But if you look at
the sort of breadth of the market really
things are holding up okay there's
actually a little bit of rotation going
on in the United States and some other
markets across the world too like cycl
cyclicality is performing fairly
strongly you can look at Japan for
example as a bit of evidence for that
and so although there is this volatility
in pockets of the market generally
speaking you know we've got oil prices
coming down that geopolitical risk
premium diminishing yes there's some
interest rate uncertainty and that's
going to continue and probably lead to
to outbreaks of volatility going forward
as
But this isn't a market that's sort of
panicking or dealing with more
uncertainty. If anything, you know, the
markets are buying into to less
uncertainty. So, I think that's, you
know, the story here is that it's kind
of the inverse of where we were, you
know, last year and the start of this
year, whereas we're, you know, more or
less looking at a market really
dominated by tech and outperforming by
tech and then forgetting that, you know,
there really wasn't that much breadth
underneath the market and fundamentals
in the economy were pretty weak. Now,
it's the reverse. um you know we're just
sort of getting caught up in the
negative headlines uh in tech rather
than looking at those sort of other
broader opportunities in the market.
>> Might some of these other opportunities
also include China? I mean the way
valuations are does that in any way look
attractive or do we sort of sit it out
until we hit the bottom?
>> I think we need a catalyst for
narrative. Um I mean if you really look
at what has driven Chinese equities and
Hong Kong equities incidentally as well
over the last year or so is that we need
to show see evidence from some of those
companies that can deliver growth
opportunities which is effectively the
artificial intelligence names in China
whether they you know be 10 cent or
Alibaba. We have another Deep Seek
moment where it sparks some kind of
rotation out of, you know, those kind of
leading arguably richly valued but not
that richly valued tech names in the
United States and the drag is some of
that capital back into China and Hong
Kong. That's really what's missing at
the moment. But if you do look at
valuations and where sentiment at is is
at sentiment's pretty positive still in
in US tech names, the Chinese tech and
Asia tech, well not Asia tech, Chinese
tech in particular has underperformed
recently. There is, I think, a very
strong argument to suggest they're too
uh too cheap, too oversold, and this
might be a good time to kind of rotate a
little bit out of the winners into those
other uh companies in in China uh which
will benefit effectively from the same
theme.
>> Does it worry you that we're seeing even
on the industrial front, they don't seem
to be benefiting from perhaps the AI
exports boom um with this dip in
industrial profit?
It shows that there's the decoupling
going on that we've seen for quite some
time here that we have a ecosystem an AI
ecosystem led by the United States and
that filters through to South Korea and
some other parts of Asia and then the
other part of the you know sort of
multipolar block that he's building
which is obviously the ch Chinese AI and
Chinese AI ecosystem which is becoming
decoupled from these supply chains and
isn't directly benefiting from the flow
and effects from a huge inst investment
boom in the United States uh and that
kind of again AI valuation um inflation
I suppose you could say or increasing
multiples uh that are happening in
assets in the United States. So the fact
that yes the industrial activity is weak
shows that you know China is perhaps
behind the curve in some respects um
when it comes to to to to that part of
the AI trade but also it's can't be
disentangled too from what is still a
very very anemic Chinese growth story a
structural story in China as well that's
being held down you know very much by
this kind of balance sheet normalization
across the private sector and so you
know really they're dealing with a much
tougher set of fundamentals but yes it's
a little bit concerning
um not surprising, but I still don't
think it detracts necessarily from the
long run view that, you know, Chinese
tech offers some pretty good value here.
Uh and there's some opportunities um for
for those looking to to to take
advantage of of you know, what is
effectively growth in that kind of AI
play in China as well.
>> Kyle, it's great to have you and thanks
for staying up for us in London as well.
Kyle Roa there, senior market analyst at
capital.com joining us there from
London. There we're taking a look when
it comes to the premarket here. looks
like looks to be uh a barrow story when
it comes to the hang sang here. So yeah,
we'll see if we can continue uh to avoid
that sort of bare market. The reference
right there it is slightly weaker here
once again 68175
and we're watching these train debuts
the three Alibab Beij digital and create
light technology all surging this
morning in the exchange. We got our very
own Mim Low on the ground there coming
up. Plenty more ahead. This is Wilmer.
All right, we are back on the Hong Kong
Exchange floor here this morning and we
got three gongs on stage and you can
already see the pre-market there. All
three are doing stellar in their first
day of school. So, Alibun
Pharmaceuticals, Beige Online Digital,
and Creole Tech. Uh, at least double or
triple digits. There you go. Almost 300%
gains for Bank Online Digital there.
Creole lights, that one is a optical
receiver company. So, certainly one
that's been quite interesting uh in this
whole AI trade and the whole
semiconductor trade. So, certainly
that's one thing to watch. We'll have
the Open coming up next. And of course,
the CEOs of two of those three companies
coming up.
Welcome back to the China show. We have
live pictures of the Hong Kong exchange
here this morning where three companies
are making their trading debut and
certainly they are doing already pretty
well uh this morning there when you talk
about Alibaban Pharmaceuticals big
online digital and Creole technology all
of which are seeing 75 up to 300% gains
here right now. So certainly a lot of
optimism this is on the back of what we
already saw on Friday which was six uh
debuts there at the Hong Kong exchange.
So this IPO pipeline continues here uh
into the summer months. So certainly
it's going to be an interesting sort of
uh reason to see maybe if Hong Kong can
actually outperform the rest of these
markets here today. We have actually
been talking about a little bit more
outperformance in Hong Kong versus maybe
Korea. We do see the likes of SKH
Samsung that's dragging the cost lower
here today uh because of this upcoming
maybe of this announcement here about
$1.3 trillion investment with the
government. So certainly that's one to
watch. There you go. The bang of the
gun.
>> There you go. The three. I I I think I
mispronounced B by that's the one I was
hearing the the MC talk. Va online
digital. That's the one that's
outperforming the three. Up 300% here
today. We have the CEOs of Alibaban
Pharmaceuticals, Creole Tech. Creelites
Tech in particular could be quite
interesting in this whole AI trade. They
do do talk about optical receivers and
the like. So certainly could be
interesting one here to see how this
plays out for the whole semiconductor
trade which has been quite choppy of
late, right? So certainly we'll watch uh
this week. But certainly there is a
plenty of headline risk this this week
here when it comes to Iran US talks that
are resuming once again that both sides
decided after some uh back and forth and
tat sort of attacks over the weekend to
actually end their hostilities uh for
now. Um but right now it's been a pretty
fragile truce of late. So there's that.
You have CRA going on with Kevin Wars
heading over to Portugal there to meet
with some of the central bankers out
there. You have the jobs report to end
the the week there out of the US. So
certainly there's a lot on tab. Uh
interesting enough, we just got these
lines coming from the PBOC, right?
There's been a lot of focus on this
overnight reverse repo rate. So at the
end of it all, I think they did not
disclose what this rate is and they kept
the 7-day reverse repo at 1.4%. I don't
know if that really dissolves any sort
of clarity, you know, uncertainty on
what this means in terms of central bank
policy and whether they are shifting
towards more the short end or what not,
but we we'll still watching closely if
they do actually finally announce that
sort of rate here. Analysts were
expecting maybe if it was 1.3 1.35 range
that might have some implications that
could drive bond yields lower. I think
Becky Lou from Stand Chart last week
told us if it's 1.25 25 or below. That
could be a de facto rate cut by the
PBOC. So, that's one thing to watch. Uh
Shanghai crude is slightly lower here
this morning. You are seeing some decent
gains when it comes to Capricorn Tech.
CL is h heading the opposite direction
there along with Qua Maai. We're still
down. Look at that. Some of these
consumer names are not doing quite well.
Ma Group is also lower by 3%. Let's look
at Hong Kong and see how we're doing
here. Keep in mind, we did get that
industrial profit number as as Averil
mentioned there. Surprisingly, was a
softer print. Yes, we still saw double
digit gains, but it was slower than what
we saw the previous months. So perhaps
there's some cracks forming in this
whole AI boom and you know, China
exiting out of deflation and the like
that scenario. But look, Hong Kong's
doing quite well. Look at HS Tech right
now. It seems to be driving the charge
here. BU is up some 5%, Baba is up close
to three. So we are seeing some decent
gains across the mega cap tech coming
through here, which yeah, finally,
right? We haven't seen that for some
time. MCI China also doing quite well
here today. watching CXMT suppliers,
right? This is the chipmaker. We've been
kind of, you know, looking forward to
that IPO coming up. Uh FT did report
about uh there's a Apple who has been
actually pursuing uh the use or at least
approval from Congress when it comes to
some of these CXMT uh chips. So that's
one thing to watch very closely here.
These are some of the suppliers. Uh
pretty mixed bag here right now. And
we'll watch of course those trading
debuts today. So Alibab Pharmaceuticals,
BGA online digital and Creole
technology. There you go. Doing very
well right now. Let's get straight to
the Hong Kong exchange to bring in our
China correspondent, Mim Lo. She's been
joining us now uh from the exchange and
tell us a bit more about the first day
of school for all these three.
>> Hey Ivon, yes, so much excitement here
at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for
these three companies that are listing
today. As you said, really strong
performance here in the opening minutes,
but one of the companies that we're
watching very closely is Clear Lights.
This is an optical module company
supplying to AI data centers to these
cloud service providers,
telecommunications network. And if you
haven't been following, optical stocks
have really been the absolute
outperformers on the CSI300 this year.
If you look at the big names on the
screen, they're the top three Chinese
companies. Um well, this this is not a
one, but they're the top three Chinese
optical firms in mainland China. They're
looking at tripledigit gains including
Jongzi Innolite which is the front
runner globally and it's also looking
for a Hong Kong IPO later this year.
Korea light though is ranked number 12
globally when it comes to revenue in
2025. It has 0.8% of the global market
share. It's still not yet profitable
though. In fact, net losses have been
increasing and the company is blaming
that on increased R&D spending as well
as suboptimal production scale. So I'll
be talking to the CEO later about how
they plan to get to break even.
>> You're also talking to executives from
other companies that are there at the
HKEX, right?
>> That's right. Alibund is another one
that's a pharmaceutical company. It
specializes in drug development to treat
kidney diseases. Uh and as with many
biotech companies, they have a
multi-year, if not multi-deade timeline,
right? to go from drug development to
clinical trials to regulatory approval
before they go into mass production and
commercialization. So a very long
timeline. These companies typically have
very high cash rate. So this is company
that is still not yet profitable as
well. A lot of questions around how they
will commercialize and price their
products. So I'll be speaking to the CEO
about that as well. But again, very
strong demand as you can see in the
opening trade here. uh and this is a
company that will benefit as well from
Beijing's prioritization of this uh
biotech sector to groom its
self-reliance and its uh move up the
value chain when it comes to the tech
sector.
>> And it's interesting too, right? We've
seen these these share sales in Hong
Kong, you know, continue to outperform
and in fact, you're seeing a bit of
revival despite the hang underperforming
uh most markets in Asia here right now.
Yeah, that's definitely an interesting
contrast, right? Because the broader
sentiment has been very weak. You look
at the hung index is close to a bare
market down about 12% I think this year.
But then it's really the enthusiasm
around the AI theme, right? That is
leading to a flurry of these IPOs in the
robotics firms, the optical cable firms
you mentioned CXMT, the chip makers. All
of these themes playing into the AI
supply chain that is really getting a
lot of capital inflow and helping to
revive the IPO market here to a 5-year
high at least in the first half of this
year. It was totaling about $44 billion
when it comes to Hong Kong share sale.
That is a 30% bump on year and certainly
a lot more interesting companies to come
in the pipeline as well.
>> Yep. Min thank you Mim Lo there
correspondent there. is going to bring
us up to date with of course uh
interviews from two of those three
companies that are listing here today.
Uh in the meantime, of course, we're
talking a little bit more about this
underperformance in Hong Kong where you
have Hong Kong, China, and India now
have emerged as the only major stock
markets where top companies account for
a smaller share of market cap than a
year ago. Now, that's underscoring how
they're falling behind in this global AI
race. Let's bring in our Asia equities
reporter, Winnie Shu. She joins us now
with the taking stock here today. So
what does this lower concentration these
markets tell us about the whole AI trade
now?
>> Yeah, I think the big takeaway is really
how this AI trade is driving a bigger
divergence between the winners and
losers. On one hand you have the winners
the likes of the North uh Asian
countries, Taiwan, South Korea for
example really having clear um AI winner
and they are seeing faster growth and
they are just growing bigger at a faster
pace. On the other hand with the
countries that are really seeing a bit
lack of the AI winners or a dominant AI
winner the likes of India, China for
example then we are seeing a bit of um
the performance is really bit more
spread across different industries but
the interesting point is how that
relates to the performances because
there we see a bit of a nuance when it
comes to India and Hong Kong they have
been underperforming because it's not
just the lack of AI it's also the top
performers the traditional ones losing a
bit more momentum. While in China, it
seems to be more of a rotation in the
breath story. So, lack of AI big winner.
However, we are seeing the money also
rotating into the high dividend yielders
or um even the companies that um are AI
adjacent names as well.
>> Is there I mean just given the
volatility we've seen in Korea and
there's so much concentration risk in
some of these markets, right? Taiwan as
well, North Asia. Does this mean there
is opportunity for investors to rotate
to more I guess these less concentrated
markets? So for the longer term
potentially but when we just look at the
near term for example we had Goldman
Sachs today pushing out a note saying
that for the second quarter uh second
half of the year outlook they're still
expecting that winners will continue to
be driving the gains because of the
earning story really still being the key
market driver and hence they're still
overweight on Taiwan, South Korea and
also China Asurers. But when it comes to
a potential pullback in South Korean
market or this AI trade that can
potentially benefit the likes of India
or even offshore China, that's probably
also why we're seeing a bit of gains in
the HStech today. But it seems like when
we talked to Sockchen last week, they
say they expect u more benefits to come
for India versus offshore China because
a bit more stability on the RBI front
for example that they are really trying
to uh stem that um capital outflows and
we're seeing more stability when it
comes to the bank sector versus offshore
China. We're still really seeing the
struggle when it comes to the broader
macroeconomic outlook piece.
Yeah, we need to talk about that
struggle and it's also interesting
today. I think there is relative
outperformance I suppose on Chinese
stocks um hing tech as you mentioned but
talk to us also we're also on watch on
on the hung potentially entering bare
market still.
Yeah, exactly. We did see a bit of
pullback from that level today, but I
believe we're still just about 1 to 2%
away from entering that bare territory
and that is after what we've seen for
MSEI China, HSCI entering that level
last week and of course HST is already
in that level and actually when you zoom
back at the performance so far this
year, offshore Chinese stock the second
worst global gauge so far this year
falling just after Indonesia and that's
coming on the back of these weak
earnings of the internet names not
really benefiting from the overall AI
hardware trade but also the weak retail
um sales and we are not really seeing
that to turn around in the near term and
investors are getting even more
pessimistic because we have these strong
export numbers and thanks to the AI
trade the export numbers driving the
growth of China but that potentially
means that the Chinese policy makers now
have less urgency to uh come up with
bigger policy boost to support the
consumption front of things and hence we
most likely will see that
underperformance of offshore stocks uh
in the near term going forward.
There's also been some commentary from
some of China's best known hedge fund
managers, right? They say, you know, the
global stock markets are ready to burst.
What's the context behind these
comments?
>> Yeah. So, that is kind of a contrarian
view just because how um everybody is
rushing into that AI trade and AI has so
much momentum. But when you look at the
numbers, it's actually not as
surprising. We're talking about for
example the tech heavy gauge. The star
50 in fact had its best quarter um just
um in the previous quarter um up about
up more than 60% and it's trading at 70
times 12 month forward earnings. So
valuation very high have already
outperformed so many other gauges. But
when it comes to the reasons why these
hedge funds are more cautious around the
AI front, they mentioned how potentially
Anthropics um revenue growth might
misestimates and also the Chinese um
these um AI um hardware names actually
don't have that long-term moat and they
also require large capital investment.
So expecting maybe potentially 80% of a
pullback on some of these names.
>> Winnie, thank you. Bloomberg Asia
Equities reporter Winnie Sue in Hong
Kong. Now still to come, China says it
can handle a freeze in economic ties
with the European Union ahead of a high
stakes trade meeting in Brussels. We'll
get you the details. This is Boomberg.
Now, the top trade officials from China
and the EU will meet later Monday in
Brussels as a trade dispute escalates.
Let's get the latest with our chief
North Asia correspondent Stephen Engel
in Shanghai for us. So, Steve, over in
Europe, these tempers are flaring in the
trade dispute on the streets also. that
seems to be spilling over. How tense are
things ahead of these talks?
>> Yeah, you could say this is a very
complicated matter. Of course, the
Chinese have put great efforts into
trying to get into the European market
and have um you know a better
relationship with Europe while of course
over the last year and a half or so or
even more than that uh relations trade
relations with the United States have
been strained because of those tariffs.
There are obviously uh some bumpy, you
know, potholes in the road, especially
if you consider as well one of China's
biggest allies, if you will, in the
leadership in the European Union, Victor
Orban of Hungary. Uh his government has
been ousted and there's a bit more of a
resistance in the new government uh in
Hungary. So that's a small window into a
broader picture of uh some concern
because European leaders had especially
in the last few weeks instructed of
course uh the European Commission uh
which oversees trade to you know start
the groundwork for negotiations with
China on their trade deficit. Europe has
a $360 billion euro uh trade deficit
with China in 2025 and has widened again
further in the first quarter. So uh the
EC uh obviously the trade you know head
of the EC is Marcos Sephovich. He will
be meeting his Chinese counterpart Wong
Wento in Brussels later Monday. Uh he's
been been tasked to negotiate with the
Chinese but also start readying some uh
measures uh defensive measures if you
will if the two sides cannot reach a a
you common ground. And it's Seph Kovage
over the last month that is basically
saying this trade deficit with China is
unsustainable. and that they uh
basically export more to Switzerland
than they do to the much larger market
of China. So again, it's it's an
uncomfortable situation as leaders don't
want to antagonize China, but they also
want to remedy this trade deficit.
>> Yeah, as you mentioned, I mean, the
language from CCTV was, you know,
China's capable of withstanding this
further deterioration uh with the EU
even to a freezing point. I mean, talk
to us a bit more about this widening
trade deficit with China. What is
Beijing's argument here?
>> Well, again, that's why they probably do
need to meet face to face to resolve
some of the um the language and some of
the tone coming from Europe and from
China. China, you know, basically
communicating through state media. We
had Global Times. We had CCTV online
account talking about they're ready uh
to go full tilt against the European
Union, even if that means freezing
commercial ties and freezing uh
relations. Right now, essentially, the
Chinese point of view is that the
Europeans have been concentrating almost
all of their efforts on securing chips
and rare earths where China wants more
clarity on market access to Europe in
EVs and the like. Of course, the
European Union sort of negotiated a new
platform for minimum price guarantees
for Chinese EVs into the European Union.
Uh the Chinese side essentially is feels
that there has not been uh you know
enough details on that matter. and in
fact in that Global Times uh piece uh
saying that Chinese or excuse me
European officials have a lack of
sincerity when it comes to the
preparatory talks leading up to this
summit if you want to call it that
between uh trade leaders uh later today
in Brussels. So yeah, it's a bit
contentious right now and a bit of a
conundrum also at a time let me just
throw this out here as well. Europe is
baking in a heat wave right now. What
does this have to do with the whole
story? Well, we're also seeing stories
from China saying China is shipping a
lot more air conditioning units, cheaper
units to the European Union right now
aboard trains heading to the European
Union. That could as well exacerbate
this trade deficit because again, a lot
of cities and countries in Europe do not
emphasize air conditioning because of
the environmental impact. So, it's a
real complicated story.
>> Complicated. All right. shipping those
ACs as you say to Europe. Stephen, thank
you so much for talking us through these
nuances. Chief North Asia correspondent
Stephen Angel in Shanghai for us.
Meanwhile, rising electricity demand
driven by data centers and EVs is
reshaping China's energy outlook amid a
push for green power. We spoke
exclusively to the planning director at
China's National Energy Administration
Ruch about how they intend to meet these
evolving needs.
It must be said that forecasting future
energy development, especially
electricity, is challenging in the 15th
5-year plan. During this period, apart
from meeting traditional energy needs,
we also need to satisfy the daily living
needs of our citizens. However, the most
significant impacts are appearing in new
sectors. First, the computing centers
you just mentioned. Secondly, there is
the development of EVs. EVs have
experienced even faster development over
the last few years, particularly since
the start of this year. Consequently,
charging power consumption has grown
significantly.
During the 15th 5-year plan, we will
focus heavily on meeting these new
demands. We need to formulate more
comprehensive strategies regarding
electrical energy substitution.
Therefore, we will continue to track and
study the changes in our energy
transition, especially in energy
substitution and electrification to
forecast long-term energy demand.
>> Could you please tell us about China's
plans for direct green powered
connections and how it's going to drive
investment in that area?
>> There's three aspects in this policy.
First, to promote the local development
and utilization of new energy,
especially wind and solar power.
Second, to meet corporate demands for
green electrical energy.
The third aspect is primarily to satisfy
the requirement for green power
traceability. Currently, many companies
need clear and distinct boundaries to
adopt green power. This is the rationale
behind the policy.
Following its implementation, investment
will increase in three areas. First,
corporate direct investment in green
electrical energy.
Our wind and photovoltaic power can be
developed directly in the vicinity of
enterprises.
This will boost investment in green
production capacity as well as corporate
investments.
The second area is investment in
auxiliary facilities for direct green
power connections since the power grid
connections must be constructed
separately. This requires new
infrastructure.
Furthermore, investments in regulation,
dispatch, and system control will also
rise.
China's National Energy Administration
planning director speaking exclusively
with Bloomberg's Dan Mr. and you can
rewatch that on the Bloomberg video hub.
Subscribers can explore live streaming
news and interviews all our Bloomberg TV
shows, documentaries, reporter analysis,
and more. Check out bloomberg.com/vide.
This is Bloomberg.
All right, we're checking movers here
this morning when it comes to HStech.
Look at that. We're actually seeing
quite a bit of outperformance here
today. Really been driven by the likes
of BYU, BABA, SMIC that are doing quite
well here. So certainly maybe there is
some rotation as we get closer to the
end of the quarter and the trading month
as well. Uh chip packaging stocks.
That's one thing we're watching as well
on the FD report with Apple seeking the
White House's approval to purchase
memory chips from CXMT which is a
blacklisted Chinese company. There you
go. You see limit up for some of these
suppliers here this morning. And of
course did Hong Kong debuts all three
continuing to do well. Look at BGO
online digital session highs there 320%
gains. Coming up we're speak live to two
of those three companies with MN low on
the ground there.
Welcome back to the China show. Happy
Monday. You're still seeing some dark
clouds across Hong Kong here this
morning. But then again, look at the
clouds apart, it seems, when it comes to
hanging. Look at that. We thought we
were nearing bureau market territory. We
actually are outperforming most markets
here across Asia. Is this a sign of this
whole rebalancing, positioning, rotation
uh back into this market? Obviously,
it's been a good day when it comes to
IPOs. We'll talk about those three
listing debuts coming up here as well.
Uh but then again, we're watching very
closely HS tech, right? There you go.
2.3% gains there. So quite a bit of
optimism around some of these mega cap
tech. Uh there was of course maybe the
Korea story that maybe leads to more
rotation into Hong Kong. Uh then again,
there's also this this deepseek story
over the weekend that broke out, right?
They did unveil this, okay, I I'm
getting very technical here, speculative
decoding framework that speeds up
inference by up to 85%. And what does
this mean really? Uh we're going to get
Anthony Stevens to unpack all that for
us coming up. Uh let's look at CGBs
because the last couple minutes it was
interesting that the PBOC came out. They
talked about this whole framework about
this overnight uh re reverse repo but
then again they did not release the
rate. So they debuted it but then no
rates. So not sure what that indicates
but you are actually seeing yields uh
heading lower here this morning. They
did keep that 7-day reverse repo, mind
you, rate at 1.4%.
Uh there you go. We're watching that.
And then the rest of the markets are
doing this here. Of course, Korea is
front and center given this announcement
coming out later on this afternoon. Uh
SKH Highix, uh Samsung and the
government to unveil this three mega
project. So the price tag, they're
talking well 1.3 trillion in terms of
investment in the next decade or so
according to local media. So that could
be substantial there. But then again, it
seems like it's more profit taking when
it comes to some of these chip names as
well. You take a look when it comes to
Samsung, SKH Highix, that's what's
dragging the costby lower. Taiwan though
is still a bright spot. TSMC is up some
too. But you know, take a look at some
of these big names. Uh they are falling
substantially here this morning. So
rotation within the text trade remains a
key theme in markets today with other
assets still relatively speaking. Uh
talking a little bit more unconcerned by
the rise in oil prices as well. The
dollar seems to be at least flat. Let's
bring in our markets reporter Anthony
Stevens on really what we're seeing
across uh markets here today. Give us a
bit of an update.
>> Yeah, so we had a lead off from the US
session that was huge on this rotation.
We had the biggest rotation from chips
into software since pretty much when the
stats were out there, right? And then we
come into that today with headlines
around Apple looking for memory supply
from China and that sparked continued
worries on the memory trade. The memory
trade is the most popular trade in AI,
right? Samsung, Highinx, Micron, these
names have gone to the moon. They are
very liquid. They're very large
positions for a lot of people. And as we
head into quarter end, month end, uh
halfyear ahead of a long US holiday for
the 4th of July, people are de-risking
very aggressively and they do need to
pick up some of these lagards into the
back end of the year. And what are these
lagards? Hong Kong, China is the obvious
example in our region. In the US, it's
software. In India, it would be the IT
services space. So all these sectors are
now on watch going into the back end of
this week as we look ahead of that US
holiday. Now there are some also some u
fundamental drivers right we have
concerns that Korea is getting ahead of
itself with this capex plan with the
government like they're spending so much
money at the top of what can be a cycle
right semis have historically been a
cycle the way they investing is
structural so there is some doubt around
that so we have some fundamental drivers
as well China has this deepseek uh
development that you mentioned which we
can get into a little bit
>> yeah tell us more about that. I mean,
what are you seeing in terms of the
beneficiaries following on this
reporting from Deep Seek?
>> So, basically what they're trying to do
is to maximize the use of semiconductors
in inference. So, there are two types of
AI uh processing. The first is training
models on data and the second is getting
those models to to use case and that is
inference. So, what the Deepseek
innovation is basically is maximizing
the usage of chips while doing that
inference. doesn't really expand the
capability of Chinese chips but it makes
them much more useful. The second
interesting thing is that this entire
project is open source. It's hosted on
GitHub and hugging face which are openf
face platforms and in collaboration with
picking university in China which is
just a fascinating difference in models
between how China is working on their AI
versus how the US is working on their
AI. So it really looks like DeepSync is
doing a public service here in trying to
improve the quality of the Chinese chips
in dealing with AI workloads and it's
really helping Chinese chip makers
today. You can see it in the market. You
know, all the Chinese chip makers are up
around 4%.
>> All right. Uh Anthony, thank you.
Anthony Stevens there on really what's
happening in the price action here
today. So uh we just got some breaking
news crossing here when it comes to
China. So, uh, tensions with Japan
obviously has been a key theme here, uh,
the last couple years. What we're
hearing now is that China is banning
dual use items exports to 20 Japanese
entities. And the move aims to curb
Japan's quote new type of militarism.
So, what we're hearing, one of those
companies that's been added to this
export control list is Mitsubishi
Electric Engineering. uh and China
urging Japan to correct its wrongdoing.
So that is the latest when it comes to
the Ministry of Commerce statement here
this morning. So certainly one thing to
watch uh these of course Japan and China
tensions here. Uh let's let's bring it
back to Korea, shall we? Uh a big
announcement coming up where Samsung and
SKH are expected to unveil investments
of as much as $1.3 trillion over the
past decade or next decade as part of a
government industrial strategy. For more
on this, let's bring in our team, Asia
Equities reporter Sami Cha, uh to talk a
little bit more about this. Sami, um
yes, uh how big of a deal is this? You
think
>> this is a big deal? This is going to be
if if really $1 trillion as we hear from
local media, it will be the largest in
any nation's history to be honest when
it comes to these massive cape spending.
you know uh for SKH Heinix, for Samsung,
these two most valuable companies from
Korea to just inject such a huge amount
of money to boost regional uh you know
uh jobs and also like to build these
fabs uh four or five fabs we're talking
about in Guangju area. This would be a
an epitome that the memory shortage that
we're experiencing here is here to stay
for a couple of years. And investors are
saying that this could be tied to the
market that we're seeing today. Uh we're
seeing surging more than 7%. And this is
coming at a time when CODAC has been
underperforming compared to its uh
benchmark Cosby. It's actually down 2%
YTD. When looking at Cosby, we're
talking about over 100% gains. Um, that
has been a huge rotation that we're
seeing today.
>> Yeah. Why why do you think it's it's
dragging down the likes of Samsung,
eshanics? This is just profit taking
from investors. How are they looking at
a deal like this?
>> Right. So, they're not investors that I
talked to this morning are not
necessarily tying this to what we we're
expecting at 2 p.m. from the government,
but it's rather we have been seeing so
much of concentration so far this year.
Um literally Heinix and Samsung take up
more than 60% of cost piece index in
terms of its waiting. So investors are
saying um anything any worries you know
especially Apple and these consumer
electronics they raising prices because
of the memory chips is just weighing on
the sentiment that maybe these um chip
makers might not be able to sustain this
um pricing power that they have.
>> Cat, let's bring you in here. Kat Barton
of course is our sole bureau chief and
she's been tracking this very closely.
Uh Kat just talk to us through about
what we're expecting from these
announcements. I think the focus also is
on the size of these investment plans
and perhaps to which regions they get
allotted to.
>> Yes, that's that's the case. Uh South
Korea's president Lie Jayong has made
regional development a big plank of his
uh administration's uh projects and
they're looking to I mean the the local
media is saying that the 1.3 trillion
will be going into the country's
southwest. So we're talking about uh
potentially building multiple new
semiconductor fabs in in the southwest
of the country which would really with
the government uh putting in the money
for infrastructure for water for
electricity which would really help to
boost uh you know the South Korea's kind
of southern area because at the moment
all of the uh investments the
semiconductor fabs are concentrated in
the greater Soul region and uh President
Lee is very much looking to to change
that and that is what we're expecting to
hear uh later today at around 2 p.m.
when President Lee will make this big uh
announcement and then we will be hearing
from SK's chairman um SK Heinik's
chairman uh Chay and then from Samsung's
uh chairman JY Lee after that with
details of the company's investment uh
plans
>> and K what might the likely impact be
then on the South Korean economy
>> well it will be a huge uh impact this is
very very uh significant investment and
South Korea has really been at the
forefront of discussions about uh you
know what should countries do with these
huge profits from from AI. Um, after the
president has spoken um and the the
companies have given us details, we'll
also be hearing from uh South Korea's
presidential policy chief Kim Yong Bomb,
who has previously sparked big
discussions about um citizens a
potential citizens dividend using um
excess tax revenues from from these huge
AI uh you know boom. So um we we'll be
interested to see what what what details
we get in terms of of that. But the
impact on the South Korean economy of
course will be major. The important
thing is also to put it in the global
context though because in terms of what
um the the hyperscalers are spending
themselves and even in terms of what
Samsung and SK currently spend every
year, 1.3 um trillion spread over a
10-year period is not out of line with
with that. it's in the ballpark of what
they're they're spending already. Um,
and is certainly what South Korea
clearly feels, you know, needs to be
invested in order to keep them ahead and
to keep this this AI edge that they that
they currently are benefiting from.
>> Cat, thank you. Cat Barton there, our
Soul Bureau chief joining us uh from
Seoul. Of course, our thanks to Sammy
Cha, Asia equities reporter as well.
Coming up, we'll be speaking with the
CEOs of two companies making strong
trade debuts today in Hong Kong. Creole
Technologies Hu Jiao Yang joins us next.
This is birth.
Well, it is IPO market that continues to
defy the odds, right? When you take a
look at what we've been seeing here,
this IPO pipeline continues to be strong
uh in Hong Kong. We're talking about the
three today, but when it comes to the
first half of this year, we basically
have seen when it comes to these stock
offerings. We are back to the levels
that we haven't seen since 2021. So
5-year highs in terms of money that's
been raised. Certainly, this is against
what we've been seeing, right? when
there is a Hong Kong market that
continues to under underperform North
Asia markets that are really kind of
been fueled by this AI trade and also
the regulatory sort of headwinds I guess
you could say as well when we've had
reports of Beijing you know questioning
the quality of these listings you're
still seeing a lot of these AI companies
in particular that are really lining up
to list here in Hong Kong that's why
we're talking about 24.5 billion of uh
proceeds there that certainly has been
raised uh first half of this year so
certainly it continues to be a pretty
strong pipeline out there. Let's take a
look at how the ones that are check uh
sharing or at least listening here
today. Creoleize technology. There you
go. 52% gains there today. The company
making optical modules that are
essential when it comes to data centers.
And of course, it brings it back to
whole AI story. Let's get back to the
Hong Kong stock exchange where Mimman Lo
is standing by with the company CEO.
Min.
>> Hey Von, great to be here with Dr. Hu
Xiaoyahu is the co who is the founder
and CEO of Creolites very strong
performance here at the opening day of
its IPO here. Thank you for joining us.
Uh we know that the optical module
prices have been skyrocketing right amid
this strong demand for AI. Where are you
seeing any shortages in terms of raw
materials and components in your supply
chain right now? Uh currently yes there
are some raw materials for example like
electro IC uh like uh DSP they call that
digital uh signal process I see
>> we we do see the some shortage at the
beginning of this year uh but I believe
it's uh uh like for the next uh several
months especially for the next year
we'll get better and for the other uh
shortages because uh uh the demand I
think uh
goes too too quick and uh for example
like uh in fast fight based uh uh lasers
also has some shortage.
>> How much is it pushing up your cost of
production and how is it affecting your
output and your margins?
>> Uh for sure the the the price uh from
the your raw material getting uh like uh
get raised up. So uh the
>> by how many percentage can you give us a
guidance?
>> They they call like uh like 20%
>> uh sometimes even like 30% is a cost uh
our price but we we we try to like uh
reduce our uh bomb cost and also our
from our like uh fabrication uh cost to
reduce the total cost. M
>> but uh good thing is like this year and
no uh the the the demand right now is
huge and nobody will ask for the lower
down the price. So it's good news.
>> So you can pass on the cost to your
clients.
>> Yes. Yes. Right now I think it's even
>> let's talk about the speed of
transmission because that is crucial in
getting your big clients and right now
the market leader Jungolite is producing
mass producing 1.6T. I believe you're
only producing 800G. How are you able to
close that technological gap?
>> Uh first uh we uh start to uh select the
the uh one I think the one uh key
technology that we call that sitting for
autonomous and we uh kind of weing for
2020. M
>> so at that time we start to build our
own uh city photonic platform from end
to end that that means uh from like uh
uh senonics uh uh pdk design and the
city photonic chip design and then uh
from uh uh cing photonics uh wafer level
testing and then we uh design and build
our own cineon based opine and op
transceivers. course. So that's uh uh I
think a very key technology for uh
achieving like higher speed option like
the 800G and the 1.60T.
>> Have you secured a long-term long-term
contracts from your clients? Are you
able to share what are some of the big
clients that you have? Yes, we uh right
now we we have uh several uh big like
like hyperscalers working with with us
and also we are JDM partners with um JDM
partner means a joint development
manufacturer that means we work with our
uh the the hyperscalers
together to uh co-develop the the
customized hair speed our next
generation of transceivers s for example
like the 1.6T option transceivers and
also the MPU
uh that that means uh near copackage
optics.
>> How much production capacity are you
going to add in the coming years?
>> Uh that's a at least a triple times at
least.
>> Okay. And are they all going to be in
China or are you looking to expand open
up factories outside China? uh for uh
stuff from right now we will impend our
uh China based uh part first and uh
start uh from the beginning of next year
we will start our uh overseas partner
lines and also we will build our
overseas sales network.
>> Where are you going to open up overseas?
>> Uh overseas I think the most likely in
uh southern east Asia.
>> Okay. And which is your most important
growth market right now? Is it still the
US?
>> Uh I believe so. But still I we saw we
already saw the uh the even huge like
demand from China market.
>> Can you give us what is the projected
annual growth in demand that you're
looking at?
>> I think the at least double from from
this year for the for for next year
double. I believe that you're still
relying on some third party components
like your EDA software for chip design
that comes from the US. How are you
going to secure your supply chain if
there are any geopolitical headwinds?
>> Uh right now we also have the uh the US
based uh uh foundry to to develop our
own city centon chips. So that means
also we work with also with the US-based
partners as well. So we we work together
with the US customers. So there's I
haven't see any like limitation or
restraint for that ED software or or
other stuff.
>> Your net losses are still expanding.
>> How are you going to close that and you
know reach profitability?
uh uh I think currently like the net
loss is from our R&D uh expense and also
uh from our like limited production uh
capacity
>> you know right now we at least triple
our prod
capacity we definitely will have the uh
very good like profit.
>> When do you think you can break even?
>> Uh this year.
>> Okay. Uh are you concerned that there
has been so much capex going into the AI
data center buildout? Are you concerned
that there's a bubble building and maybe
you are overcommitting to this you know
big growth rate that you are making
assumptions on? I think uh probably some
uh of the concern from the plugable uh
transceivers
and uh people think about maybe there's
over power capacity for the plugable
transer but right now we are focusing on
the compacted optics for example MPO and
CPU and all from the silicon photon
based uh uh optical interconnect uh
products and we don't need like uh uh
build our own fab. We use like
commercial uh like the fiber
>> and we can build our own chip and for
like sum for based uh uh product
international products we can share the
same sum for platform. So the capex wise
I think the is not big big issue. How
are you going to compete with the global
front runners whether it's US companies
like Lmentum or the Chinese ones like
Jung like
>> uh we
don't like compete with them and I I
know we just use a different technical
solution like what I talked about just
now is we all sitting photon is the uh
tech technical like solution wherever
like the optical transceivers we all use
the senior photonics uh solution to
build them and uh for like uh MPU right
now we are focus on the MPU and CPU this
kind of the uh optical in technology for
AIDC they all from the city photon based
we just focus on the uh this technical
solution
>> not like the other people they have the
EML based solution they have the the
different kind of the tech solution but
for us we just focus on just one tech
solution
>> one core product Okay, thank you so much
Dr. Hu Jawang. That is the CEO and
founder of Korea Lights, an optical
module company. Certainly a lot of
challenges but also huge opportunities
in this sector. This is Bloomberg
100 p.m. in Soul. That's going to be the
big announcement that we're expected to
hear from the government here. This
Samsung SKH Highix investing uh 1.3
trillion over the 10 years here. So
certainly that's one thing to watch
according to some media reports but to
confirm that 2,000 trillion Juan worth
of investments from the two companies.
What could benefit according to some
analysts and traders out there could be
the power side of things here. So that's
why you're seeing some of these power
stocks surge on the back of this
upcoming announcement. We're also
checking CXMT suppliers as well because
Apple according to the FT is now seeking
the approval from the White House to
purchase some of these memory chips from
CXMT which is a blacklisted company. So
certainly that's one thing to watch. You
are seeing the likes of ASMPT for
example, Jangu, they're all uh Yoka also
up substantially here and PopMart. Oh,
and a bit of disappointment here in this
latest product launch. According to
Deutsche Bank, the shares were falling.
We've erased some of that here, but they
talked about the Monsters Hair Salon
launch much weaker than expected here,
suggesting that this recent IP cycle
with PopMart may be entering a more
fragile stage. We have more coming up.
This is Bloomberg.
Oof, a bit cloudy there uh when it comes
to Japan and Tokyo this morning, but we
are seeing a bit of a pullback when it
comes to the Nicke225 stocks are on
offer here. We're lower by about 710 of
1%. We're flat though on the topics. Uh
we're still watching dollar yen 16176.
I think that gets back to near 40year
lows uh for the currencies. So very much
so in focus is still whether we are
intervention watch or not from Japan.
Asian markets are doing this year. were
flat when it comes to the benchmark. But
then again, you are seeing that
rotation, right? Perhaps this is just a
flow sort of thing. Uh I have some
viewers asking me this really could be
just a rebalancing sort of issue that
we're seeing as we mark the end of the
quarter, end of the trading month here.
Uh that's why you are seeing the Cosby
selloff and really that rotation back
into potentially the HS tech names as
well today. Uh the US dollar is flat. US
futures are actually punching uh quite
high here at the during the Asia
session. We're up about half of 1% and
most sectors are actually in the green
with the exception of there you go very
lefthand corner there which is the IT
sector that's largely been dragged by
the likes of SKH Heinix and Samsung
ahead of that big mega projects that's
expected to be announced later on in the
afternoon. In the meantime, let's talk a
little more about IPOs. Why not? We're
checking the stock of Chinese biotech
firm Alibab Pharmaceuticals. One of
three companies trading for the first
time today on the Hong Kong stock
exchange. Shares up. There you go. close
to 90% here right now. Let's get back to
exchange where our very own Mim Lo is
with the company's co-founder. Hey Mim.
>> Hey Ivon. Yes. Joining me here is Dr.
Gavin Sia, the CEO and co-founder of
Alibaban Pharmaceuticals. Again, thanks
for joining us. Uh very strong
performance today. Uh I know you
specialize in treating kidney dis
diseases and you have a drug candidate
that is close to approval. Um, but there
are also a lot of these generic cheap
drugs out there. So, why should patients
pay a premium for this new drug?
>> Well, thank you for having me today. I
mean, it's a great honor to be here.
And, uh, in terms of the drugs,
especially for the kidney disease, we we
had a big blue sea and we didn't see
really many good drugs on the market so
far. And although there are several
generics already, but the drug
performance is quite bad to be honest. I
mean in China there only like 26% oh
sorry 24% of control rate for the
hyperostmia in the diialysis population.
However, I mean for the episode one, we
are finish we're finishing the China
fishy already and uh we are doing the
global fishery right now and uh we'll
summit NDA this year and get approval
next year in China hopefully and of
course I mean in the US will be in 2028
>> but the drug is actually much better
than the existing uh for binders and
>> how much better is your
>> Yeah, we position ourself as a
best-in-class fossy binder and uh there
is no human absorption at all and also
the uh phosphate reduction capabilities
this program is actually the best among
all the for binders, right?
>> So, what is going to be your pricing
strategy when you launch and how is the
your negotiations going on with insurers
right now? Well, in in in China, we
actually going to uh price prize ourself
as a premium product uh which is
actually uh uh on par to the perverse I
mean innovative drug from MNC's and in
the US of course we're going to be much
better than uh existing binders and
we're also going to have a premium price
predition and uh that's going to be the
301 right
>> are you getting in the process of
getting your drug included by insurance
>> yeah of course that's that's a must I
guess especially in China the chronic
kidney disease drug, we definitely got
to uh get the drug into the NRDL. And
>> what's your strategy for market adoption
in China and in the US?
>> Well, in China, we're going to promote
the drug by ourselves. We already set up
our own sales team and because in China,
the nephology department in the hospital
are quite unique and all the diialysis
happens in there and all the CKD
diagnosis and treatment happens in there
too. So uh in the future we're going to
have like different product offering and
our sales team can promote different
product at the same time when they with
it the the the physicians
>> and uh that's situation in China but in
the US the the situation are quite
different Dallas center control the
dialysis market and all the patients for
dialysis happens in the delis centers
that's the reason why we actually work
work quite closely with the delis center
in the US especially like a dvita we've
uh we've set up a a joint venture with
dvita and the US reno the third largest
on uh in the US already for our uh AP06
and in the future AP01 will be pretty
much a similar situation but we want a
Cso type of deal for AP01. Right.
>> So when are you looking at mass
production for this drug?
>> Well uh we're going to produce the
product in our own manufacturer site in
Jangsung Yanjo. We finished all the
construction back in 2024 and it's got
ready right now and uh we will get the
GMP certificate this year and also get
the mass productive next year. Right. M
how much uh you mentioned your pro
prospectors that you are going to
increase capacity as well. How much
capacity are you adding and where are
you adding them?
>> Right. Currently we designed like 200
tons per year for AP01 which is actually
going to be good enough to for like 20
to 25% Chinese status population and in
the future as needed of course I mean
we're going to expand it as a to another
like 100 tons or maybe a 200 tons but
haven't decided yet. we need to see in
the market and also we're going to have
another product AP306 as our portfolio
play as a very strong position as a
strategy to control like all to get to
to gain more market shares together
right
>> and when you do license your drugs to
the US do you plan to produce out of
China and export there or will you open
a new factory elsewhere
>> well at least for the drug substance as
a DS we're going to do that in China
because we do have like a very good
quality and also we can control the the
cost but for the drug product as needed.
Maybe we're going to look for another uh
CRO or CMO to produce the drug product
in the US as needed because we work
together with R1 therapeutics, the the
GV we uh set up together and they got
like independent management team. We're
going to decide what to do in China and
also in the US, right?
>> I think your main source of revenue
stream right now is the exclusive
licensing deal for this anemia drug,
right, from Ro Pharmaceuticals. Are you
looking at you know expanding your
sources of revenue or having more
licensing deals in the pipeline? Well,
yeah, of course. I mean, uh, consider Ro
can just give the product like Misera,
the best, uh, the best in-class, I mean,
long acting to a biotech company like
us. It's quite rare to be honest. We,
uh, we set up our own sales team just
for Misera. And, uh, the main reason in
China for that is that we want to expand
our network, just expand into different
uh, nephology department in different
hospitals, right? And get oursel ready
for future products like 301, like 306,
maybe 303 and 308. So basically RO
recognize the future synergy from our
portfolio right and um for us more
importantly I mean we need to launch our
own product as soon as possible and uh
to supply steady uh stock to the to the
market.
>> Could you share if there are any other
foreign licensing deals in the pipeline?
Well, we you know we just did a a quite
uh uh innovative type of a deal
structure with R1 therapeutics and as a
biggest shareholder in Ran therapeutics
we hold non-dilutive share and we work
closely with Dvita with US Reno and also
very strong financial investors like
IrInorth
and um we didn't really ask huge upfront
payment because we we didn't really
worry too much about our cash flow but
we uh just loaded the everything in the
in the back part and for future we're
going to have very strong dividend
return as our net profit right and in
the future of course we're going to look
quite closely at the opportunities uh in
the market especially for like a product
like 303 and the 308 right
>> we know that some US senators have been
campaigning against investment deals
licensing deals with Chinese biotech
firms there is the biosecure act of
course um how are you preparing or
insulating yourself from from these
geopolitical headwinds
>> well to be honest is if your product is
the best I and globally they're going to
have to just uh launch it in the US
right and uh we won't just be affect too
much by the political play but what we
need to get oursel prepared is get a
drug on the market as soon as possible
right
>> your cash burn rate is pretty high so
how long can this uh round of IPO
funding sustain you
>> it's going to support us like up to 15
months at least and it's going to
support us until we break even or make
profit
>> when do you think it will break even
>> oh it's in in like uh three or four
years we should be able to once AP06 get
on the market. We're definitely going to
break even. Maybe even get a break even
point before that.
>> Will you need to raise more rounds of
financing before that?
>> If we only run like current business, we
probably don't need to to be honest.
Right.
>> All right. Yeah.
>> Okay. Thank you so much.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Yeah, that was Dr. Gavin Sia. He is the
CEO and co-founder of Alibaban
Pharmaceuticals.
>> All right. Thanks, women. Great
conversations there this hour of course
with the likes of Ali Bun
Pharmaceuticals the CEO there of course
you can rewatch that on the Bloomberg
Video Hub. Subscribers can explore live
streaming and all our news and
interviews there. Check it out at
bloomberrook.com/videos.
Coming up we're digging into Deep Seek's
latest reported breakthrough. One that
Bloomberg Intelligence says could reduce
China's reliance on Nvidia chips. We
have the details coming up next. This is
Bloomberg.
We're watching Chinese tech stocks here
this morning. There is a bit of
outperformance when it comes to some of
the names on HS Tech here today. The
likes of Huah Hung SmiC. So, some of
these domestic chip makers doing quite
well. On the flip side, you have the AI
pure plays like Jupu Miniax that are
actually underperforming. Interesting
enough, we got some news over the
weekend and regarding DeepSeek. So,
they're calling this the DS Spark, which
is a gosh, we're getting very into the
weeds here. Speculative decoding
framework can increase the per user
response speeds by up to 85%. So, it's a
development that could actually reduce
an AI systems reliance on larger and
more powerful chip infrastructure. Let's
bring in Bloomer Intelligence and get
their take on this. Right. Robertly
agrees that adding that this
breakthrough highlights China's rising
progress as a leader in lowcost AI model
implementation and will probably be
utilized by other domestic players. Of
course, he joins us now, Robert Lee, uh,
with more on this. So, do you think this
this breakthrough can actually mean that
China can close the door on Nvidia?
>> Yeah, well, I would say the doors
already closed. So, maybe what Deep Seek
has done is is thrown another bolt
across it. Um because as you appreciate,
China's pursuing self-sufficiency across
tech with a particular focus in AI and
semiconductors. Um so we've been
publishing probably for the best part of
six months that the chances of Nvidia
shipping that H200, the China specific
variant into China is minimal to say the
least. So this is another development I
think which confirms that.
>> So is this it? Is this the the Deep Seek
2.0 moment we've been waiting for?
>> Wow. Another Deep Seek moment.
I guess it again it's an engineering
issue. China is working within strict
confines because they can't legally
access high-end Nvidia chips. So
therefore they have to focus more on
software optimization to make the best
of what they've got. And I think and
unarguably China's developing a real
lead in efficient models and lowcost
models as pioneered by Deepseek. So this
is another example of them doing that.
Um and essentially uh what this uh
development does as you've already said
is potentially speed up inference by up
to 85%. That is a really bold claim. Um
it's yet to be verified externally but
inference is where the workloads
inference is the real problem solving
that um that AI does. So if again that
is verified externally it illustrates
that China's making substantial
progress.
>> Okay. Uh could be a big breakthrough. Uh
when it comes to another you have
another report JUPU.
>> Yes.
>> Um this is about the fact that you think
you're arguing that JUP's AI won't
achieve AGI. Why not?
>> Okay. For those who are unfamiliar, AGI
is the holy grail of AI. It's artificial
general intelligence. Uh AI that is on a
has a humanlike level of intelligence.
And I think what I'm about to say
applies to all companies, not just
within China, but those overseas and
maybe our cousins in the US as well.
Academic research is uh universal. It's
the consensus among academics that in
order to achieve AGI, we need a new
generation of models. We need a
substantial technological breakthrough.
Um we don't know whether that is going
to happen. It could happen tomorrow,
could happen in 6 months, it may never
happen.
>> Um because the current generation of
models are largely probabilistic
statistical engines, statistical engines
that work on pattern recognition. So the
report we've put out today sort of goes
into that in more technical detail. So
there's two technical things today and I
think the conclusions of it don't just
apply to Jupu AI which is gunning for
AGI but also the likes of Alibaba and I
think it has more global uh
ramifications. Again, it would be
amazing. Well, or would it be amazing if
we have a AI that has a human-like level
of intelligence, then I think there
would be real risk to a number of roles
out there. But I think, you know, based
in the world of reality, not science
fiction.
>> Um, then it's highly unlikely to be
achieved anytime soon. So AI as it
exists is a useful productivity engine.
It's a useful efficiency tool, but no
more than that. So some of these very um
ambitious claims made by the tech bros
in the US I think uh exactly that I
think we need to take some of them with
a large pinch of salt and without
calling anyone name out there I think on
the extreme end we've got a few snake
oil salesmen selling people dreams that
are unlikely to be realized because the
academics in particular don't believe it
the facts and the evidence don't support
it. All right. Um, always giving it to a
straight but the limitations of course
of of what we see in these current
models and the like. Robert Lee, thank
you so much. Blick intelligence, senior
analyst here. Make sure to check out his
report here today. Uh, this AGI dream
for a joo remains a distant science
fiction fantasy. Now to some other big
stories that we're following for you
today. Anthropic has won US approval to
restore some global access to his 5 AI
model from what the commerce secretary
calls certain trusted partners. Harard
Lutnik says a company has made
significant progress on resolving
concerns about potential national
security threats. Anthropic disabled
global access to Mythos 5 and a related
model this month on US government
orders. Chinese AI systems have
reportedly matched some of the cyber
security performance of anthropics
mythos model as well. Now the Wall
Street Journal spoke with researchers
who say Jupu's latest AI model can match
its US rivals when it comes to fighting
security bugs. The report says that
could reset the global tech race and
pressure the White House in its overhaul
of US AI policy. China's commerce
ministry has banned shipments of certain
dualuse items to 20 Japanese entities,
aiming to cur what Beijing says is
Tokyo's new type of militarism. For the
details, let's bring in our Bloomberg
chief Asia correspondent, Stephen Engel.
He joins us from Shanghai this morning.
Steve, what do we know about this move
from the Communist Ministry?
Yeah. Well, it's further pressure that
Beijing is going to be applying to Japan
uh in the long tale of the aftermath of,
of course, the prime minister's
controversial comments about Taiwan and
how any invasion of Taiwan, of course,
this was late last year, uh would be a
survival threatening situation for
Japan. Beijing obviously sees these
comments, excuse me, from the prime
minister um as signs that uh Japan is
remilitarizing.
All of a sudden, losing my voice here
for a second, but it also follows um you
know a People's Daily comment. Sorry, I
got my voice back here. Uh there was a
People's Daily commentary out of Beijing
uh late last week essentially saying
Japan's planned revisions to its key
security documents have gone beyond a
mere policy adjustment and represents a
dangerous step towards a broader
remmilitarization agenda. So what we got
today uh from the Ministry of Commerce
out of Beijing is this not only adding
20 companies and and bodies, Japanese
institutions to this um export control
list which would block any exporters
from China exporting so-called dual use
products to these entities uh without
also you know having a special license
approval which would be very difficult
to get. But they've also added another
20 Japanese entities to the so-called
watch list, including a drone maker, a
Japanese drone maker, a Japanese ship
maker. Often times, this watch list is a
precursor to being added to uh the ent
or the yeah, the entity list, the export
control list. So yes, China is not
backing down on its pressure on Japan
until it gets a satisfactory response
from Tokyo uh that they retract or
apologize for those comments from Prime
Minister
Yeah. Uh, we're all dealing with some
itchy throats here this morning. Steve,
I'm going to let you get a glass of
water. Uh, there the Shanghai bureau.
Our chief Asia correspondent, Stephen
Engel, there joining us, of course, uh,
in Shanghai. A look at how China, Hong
Kong markets are doing here right now.
We talked about really this rotation
back into Hong Kong. Certainly, that is
helping the likes of HS Tech. We are now
seeing close to 3% gains on that gauge
here. Hang Sang is now above 23,000. So
if we continue at this pace, we could
once again avert that sort of bare
market territory here. On the flip side,
you take a look at onshore markets.
We're pretty flat on the CSI 300 and
Shanghai Composite here. Shenzhen though
seeing a bit of pressure there. This is
Bloomberg.
Well, rising electricity demand driven
by data centers and EVs is reshaping
China's energy outlook amid a push for
green power. We spoke exclusively to the
planning director at China's National
Energy Administration, Ren Yu, about how
they intend to meet these evolving
needs.
It must be said that forecasting future
energy development, especially
electricity, is challenging in the 15th
5-year plan. During this period, apart
from meeting traditional energy needs,
we also need to satisfy the daily living
needs of our citizens. However, the most
significant impacts are appearing in new
sectors. First, the computing centers
you just mentioned. Secondly, there is
the development of EVs. EVs have
experienced even faster development over
the last few years, particularly since
the start of this year. Consequently,
charging power consumption has grown
significantly.
During the 15th 5-year plan, we will
focus heavily on meeting these new
demands. We need to formulate more
comprehensive strategies regarding
electrical energy substitution.
Therefore, we will continue to track and
study the changes in our energy
transition, especially in energy
substitution and electrification to
forecast long-term energy demand. Could
you please tell us about China's plans
for direct green power connections and
how it's going to drive investment in
that area?
>> There's three aspects in this policy.
First, to promote the local development
and utilization of new energy,
especially wind and solar power.
>> Second, to meet corporate demands for
green electrical energy.
The third aspect is primarily to satisfy
the requirement for green power
traceability. Currently, many companies
need clear and distinct boundaries to
adopt green power. This is the rationale
behind the policy.
Following its implementation, investment
will increase in three areas. First,
corporate direct investment in green
electrical energy.
Our wind and photovoltaic power can be
developed directly in the vicinity of
enterprises.
This will boost investment in green
production capacity as well as corporate
investments.
The second area is investment in
auxiliary facilities for direct green
power connections. Since the power grid
connections must be constructed
separately, this requires new
infrastructure. Furthermore, investments
in regulation, dispatch, and system
control will also rise.
>> That was China's National Energy
Administration planning director
speaking exclusively with Bloomberg's
Dan Merrta. All right, we are checking
when it comes to movers here this
morning. And interesting enough, we're
watching some of these aircon stocks in
Asia, most of which are heading higher
here. Of course, you probably have heard
it, this heat wave that you're seeing
across Europe. And so certainly one of
the key ones and really beneficiaries
has been the likes of Higher Smartome.
We're up close to 4% this morning. Uh
New World, there's an interesting scoop
from our team. Uh talking a little bit
more about what's going on uh with one
of their developments here uh in a kind
of non central part of Hong Kong. uh
basically they had to drop prices to
offload some units and these price cuts
which you know includes discounts
rebates of as much as 57% just continues
to show the struggles that we're seeing
in the commercial property side of
things uh in Hong Kong uh beyond just
central which is of course the financial
district here if you're not familiar
with the city we're down 3% for the
stock uh also the big thing to watch is
going to be 2 p.m. soul time, right? So,
we're just a few hours away from this
announcement from the government here.
So, set to unveil this sweeping strategy
uh aimed at driving the nation's what
they say great leap forward with Samsung
and SKH Highix set to announce major
investment plans along with new
government policy initiatives is saying
could be upwards of 1.3 trillion in
terms of the investment in the next 10
years according to some local media
reports there. But you are seeing a bit
of I guess profit taking when it comes
to Samsung SK highs ahead of that.
That's it for us here the China show.